---
layout: page
title: Adobe Document Services  
permalink: /forms/adobe-document-services/
parent: Formulare
nav_order: 3
---

{: .no_toc}
# Adobe Document Services  

1. TOC
{:toc}

Adobe Document Services – also known as “ADS” for short – is required by SAP Interactive Forms and SAP S/4HANA Forms in order to generate the desired file or print formats (rendering). In other words, these are the services that create and generate the documents at runtime. 

The file formats generated are PDF or PDF/A. The PDF/A format represents a variant of PDF, which is used to ensure long-term archiving. This means that documents can be reproduced again and again, regardless of the software used, because all relevant information is embedded in the file.  

The following most important print formats can be generated by the ADS:
- PCL
- ZPL
- PostScript

Depending on the ADS version, printer languages ​​such as IPL, DPL or TPCL are also supported.

A distinction must be made between two versions of Adobe Document Services. A local on-premise version “local ADS” and a Cloud version “SAP Forms Service by Adobe (Cloud-ADS)”.

## ADS On-Premise

- SAP maintenance and support  
    - SAP NetWeaver Application Server Java bis 2027 (erweiterte Wartung bis 2030)  
    - SAP S/4HANA Java bis 2030
- The successor solution will run on SAP HANA Extended Application Services Advanced Model (XSA) and is planned for Q1 2027 with the S/4HANA 2025 FPS03.
- License-free for print forms

{: .note }
> [Blog on the maintenance strategy of SAP](https://community.sap.com/t5/technology-blogs-by-sap/maintenance-strategy-adobe-forms-on-premise/ba-p/13627957)

## SAP Forms Service by Adobe (Cloud-ADS)

- Runs as a service on the SAP BTP (Cloud Foundry Environment)
- Provision and maintenance by SAP

{: .note }
> Additional information under note 2219598  

You can quickly and reliably test whether Adobe Document Services are set up and connected in your system using the test program FP_TEST_00 (Form Processing – Central Test Program).

Other test programs are:

- FP_TEST_01 Form Processing – Central test program with archiving
- FP_TEST_02 Form Processing – test program for different data types